
=head1 Project Title

Perlbal documentation


=over 1

=item Name:

José Castro
Bruno Martins


=item Email:

cogurov@gmail.com
bscmartins@gmail.com


=item Amount Requested:

USD $ 2.500 (half for each of us)

=back

=head2 Synopsis


Perlbal!

"It processes hundreds of millions of requests a day just for LiveJournal, Vox and TypePad and dozens of other "Web 2.0" applications."

It works great as a load balancer, wonderfully as a reverse proxy, marvellously as a web server.

If you know how to use it.

Perlbal lacks the documentation for even the simplest of tasks. Beginners can't possibly be expected to install and configure it by themselves, let alone write a plugin or accomplish some heavier task. At least not without losing some sanity.

However, all of these tasks are in fact easy ones.

But again, if you know how to do them.

This proposal aims at documenting several aspects of Perlbal and make several lives easier.



=head2 Benefits to the Perl Community

Grab a great Perl load balancing tool and make it usable to a broader audience.



=head2 Deliverables


Documentation detailing:

    Installation
    CookBook:
        Using Perlbal as a reverse proxy
        Using Perlbal as a load balancer
        Using Perlbal as a web server
        Managing and configuring Perlbal on-the-fly
    Writing Plugins
    Perlbal's Architecture at a glance

The resulting document should make non-Perlbal users able to install, configure and even write a Perlbal plugin without having to read Perlbal's code and/or bang their heads against a desk in the middle of the night.

This documentation will be written in POD, so it can be distributed along with the code. This will also allow for a quick conversion to Wiki format, so that the project page on Google Code can show the documentation on the web.


=head2 Project Details


We already got in touch with Alan Kasindorf (Dormando), one of Perlbal's main developers/committers/release managers, who told us "That'd be great."

Alan pointed out the desire to write documentation for Perlbal and also the lack of time on his behalf.

We'll keep in touch with Alan to make sure the resulting documentation is in conformity to what would be expected.


=head2 Inch-stones

The project should take us 5-6 weeks, so we decided to detail some of the steps.

Also note that unless the Grant Committee advises us not to, we're keen on putting the documentation on a public github project from day one. It should also be noted that we intend on receiving the grant money even if other people start contributing to the project and aid us.

As soon as a chapter is completed, we can put it on Perlbal's homepage.


=head3 Week 1 - Installation procedures

We'll be installing Perlbal in a machine with barely anything on it (yes, we've done all these things before; several times).

We'll be documenting the process: all the steps, dependencies, requirements, problems we encounter and other possible problems we can think of.

This week should end with a document detailing everything a user needs to know to install Perlbal for the first time ever.


=head3 Week 2 - Load Balancer

Now we'll configure Perlbal as a Load Balancer.

Once again, we're going to be documenting all the steps taken.

The week should end with a document describing how Perlbal works as a Load Balancer, how to set it up, and containing examples for a few different setups.


=head3 Weeks 3 and 4 - Reverse Proxy and Web Server

More of the same.

More documentation, detailing all one needs to know to set up Perlbal as a Reverse Proxy or a Web Server, complete with a few recipes.


=head3 Week 5 - Managing and configuring Perlbal on-the-fly

During this week we'll be detailing how to check perlbal's status and how to configure it without restarting it.


=head3 Week 6 - Plugins

We'll be writing a couple of plugins.

The process will be documented and this should result in a document that will render any reader able to write their own plugin.

We'll also list the existing plugins out there, try some of them and describe how to use them.


=head3 Week 7 - Bonus Week

We'll be looking (once again) at Perlbal's architecture in order to detail it briefly to the curious user.

During this week we'll also be revising all the documentation written so far. That includes spell checking, grammar checking, content and recipes.





=head2 Project Schedule

Since our plan comprises 7 weeks, we're expecting it to take us 9.

It may look odd to an outsider, but we both have very demanding jobs where occasionally situations occur that require our attention after hours. That will leave us with very little time for this project and will end up delaying things.

It could also happen that we finish the project in 5-6 weeks, but our experience tells us we're better off with antecipating one rough week over the course of each month.

We'll still be aiming at the 7 week schedule, though, and doing our best to reach that target.

We can begin work on September 20th (this would make the end date November 22nd).


=head2 Completeness Criteria


There will be documentation.

This should be readable, easy to understand, and contain instructions and examples on the following subjects:

    Installation
    CookBook:
        Using Perlbal as a reverse proxy
        Using Perlbal as a load balancer
        Using Perlbal as a web server
        Managing and configuring Perlbal on-the-fly
    Writing Plugins
    Perlbal's Architecture at a glance

We understand how readibility and ease of understanding are very subjective concepts, but this is a documentation project, so we feel those should be the criteria.

We considered having the completeness of the project being evaluated by having the documentation figure on Perlbal's wiki or source code, but since we know that other people have their own lives we'd prefer a) not to depend on anyone else to have the grant be considered successful and b) not to thrust that responsibility on someone who has no responsibility towards the grant.



=head2 Bio

We're two Perl developers based in Lisbon. We work at SAPO - Portugal's largest web portal - where we make use of Perlbal in several projects.

We've both used Perlbal and wrote plugins for it (Bruno has managed to release one of them to CPAN).

We both have code on CPAN:

    http://search.cpan.org/~cog/
    http://search.cpan.org/~bsm/

We're both regulars at Perl events:

    http://conferences.yapceurope.org/ye2010/user/154
    http://conferences.yapceurope.org/ye2010/user/215

And, most important of all, we have both suffered at the hands of Perlbal, and wish no one else to have to suffer too.


=head2 Links of interest

Project homepage - http://www.danga.com/perlbal/
Source code - http://code.google.com/p/perlbal/
Wikipedia page - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perlbal
Perlbal stuff on CPAN - http://search.cpan.org/search?m=all&q=perlbal&s=1&n=50


=cut
