=head1 NAME

Perlbal::Manual - Guide and reference manual for Perlbal


=head2 VERSION

Perlbal 1.76.


=head2 DESCRIPTION

This is the comprehensive guide and reference manual for Perlbal.


=over 4

=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Architecture>

Perlbal's architecture at a glance. Useful for future developers.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Configuration>

How to configure Perlbal. Pools, services, syntax and more.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Contributing>

How to contribute to Perlbal.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Credits>

Author and contributor credits for Perlbal.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::HighPriority>

Perlbal's high/low priority queueing system and how to use it.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Hooks>

How Perlbal's hooks work and list of existing hooks.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Install>

Installation procedures for Perlbal.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::LoadBalancer>

Setting up a Perlbal Load Balancing service.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Management>

Setting up a C<management> service, connecting to that service and managing Perlbal on-the-fly.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Plugins>

Known plugins and how to create new ones.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::ReverseProxy>

Setting up a Perlbal Reverse Proxy service.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Roles>

Brief description of existing roles.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Selector>

Setting up a Perlbal C<selector> service.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::ToDo>

Perlbal's To-Do list.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::WebServer>

Setting up a Perlbal Web Server service.


=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Bruno Martins and José Castro.


=head2 SEE ALSO

L<Perlbal::FAQ>.
