

...


=head2 Parameters

You can set parameters via commands of either forms:

    SET <service-name> <param> = <value>
    SET <param> = <value>


=head3 B<Note on types>:

'bool' values can be set using one of 1, true, yes, on, 0, false, off, or no.

'size' values are in integer bytes, or an integer followed by 'b', 'k', or 'm' (case-insensitive) for bytes, KiB, or MiB.


=over 8

=item B<dirindexing> = bool

Show directory indexes when an HTTP request is for a directory. Warning: this is not an async operation, so will slow down Perlbal on heavily loaded sites.

Default if false.


=item B<docroot> = directory/root

Directory root for web server.


=item B<enable_concatenate_get> = bool

Enable Perlbal's multiple-files-in-one-request mode, where a client have use a comma-separated list of files to return, always in text/plain.

Useful for web apps which have dozens/hundreds of tiny css/js files, and don't trust browsers/etc to do pipelining.

Decreases overall round-trip latency a bunch, but requires app to be modified to support it. See t/17-concat.t test for details.  

Default is false.


=item B<enable_delete> = bool

Enable HTTP DELETE requests.

Default is false.


=item B<enable_put> = bool

Enable HTTP PUT requests.

Default is false.


=item B<index_files> = comma-separated list of filenames

Comma-separated list of filenames to load when a user visits a directory URL, listed in order of preference.

Default is index.html.


=item B<max_put_size> = size

The maximum content-length that will be accepted for a PUT request, if enable_put is on.

Default is 0, which means there is no limit.


=item B<min_put_directory> = int

If PUT requests are enabled, require this many levels of directories to already exist. If not, fail.

Default is 0.
